<TITLE>Drawing</TITLE>
<TOPIC>art</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>drawing</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>painting</TOPIC>
<TEXT>
This article is about the art form. Drawing also refers to a method of producing
wire, bars, or tubes.

Drawing is one way of making an image: it is the process of making marks on a 
surface by applying pressure from or moving a tool on the surface. These marks 
may represent what the artist sees when drawing, a remembered or imagined scene 
or abstraction, or, in the case of automatic drawing, may have much to do with 
the automatic motion of the artist's hand across the paper (or other surface). 
(In the process of entoptic graphomania, in which dots are made at the sites of 
impurities or shifts in colour in a blank sheet of paper, and lines are then 
made between the dots, superficially speaking the subject of the drawing is the 
paper itself.) The main techniques used in drawing are: line drawing, hatching, 
crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending.

Common drawing tools are pencils, chalk, charcoal, crayons, pastels, and pen and
ink. Many drawing materials are not water or oil based and are applied dry, 
without any preparation. Water-based drawing media (e.g.,"watercolor pencils") 
exist, which can be drawn with like ordinary pencils, then moistened with a wet 
brush to get various effects. There are also oil-based pastels and wax-based 
crayons. Very rarely, artists have drawn with (usually decoded) invisible ink.

One thing that differentiates drawing from painting is that in drawing, an 
artist uses pure colors and cannot mix them before application. (In painting, 
new colors are commonly created by mixing.)

The colors of drawing media can mix on the surface because of direct chemical 
interaction. More usually, the mixing is optical rather than chemical: colors 
are overlaid (also known as "glazing") on previous layers so that light reflected
frombelow the surface comes through, or color strokes are close enough that the 
eye "mixes" them.

Some artists have started referring to pastel and colored-pencil compositions 
as"paintings".[edit]

Drawing media

The medium is the means by which ink, pigment, or color are delivered onto the 
drawing surface. Examples include:

    chalk 
    charcoal 
    colored pencil 
    conte 
    crayon 
    graphite 
    ink 
    marker 
    pastel 
    pen and ink 
    silverpoint 
</TEXT>
