<TITLE>Phishing</TITLE>
<TOPIC>Phishing</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>password phishing</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>security</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computer security</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computer</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computers</TOPIC>
<TEXT>
In computing, phishing, or password phishing, is the luring of sensitive 
information, such as passwords and other personal information, from a victim by
masqueradingas someone trustworthy with a real need for such information. It is 
a form of social engineering
<LINK>security:pages/security/Social_engineering_computer_security</LINK> 
attack.

The term was coined in the mid nineties by crackers attempting to steal AOL 
accounts. An attacker would pose as an AOL staff member and send an instant 
message to a potential victim. The message would ask the victim to reveal his 
password, for instance to "verify his account" or to "confirm billing 
information". Once the victim gave over the password, the attacker could access 
the account and use it for criminal purposes, such as spamming.

Today, online criminals put phishing to more directly profitable uses. Popular 
targets are users of online banking services, and auction sites such as eBay. 
Phishers usually work by sending out spam e-mail to large numbers of potential 
victims. These direct the recipient to a Web page which "appears" to belong to 
their online bank, for instance, but in fact captures their account information 
for the phisher's use.

Typically the email will appear to come from a trustworthy company and contain a
subject and message intended to alarm the recipient into taking action. A common 
approach is to tell the recipient that their account has been de-activated due 
to a problem and inform them that they must take action to re-activate their 
account. The user is provided with a convenient link in the same email that 
takes the email recipient to a fake webpage appearing to be that of a 
trustworthy company. Once at that page, the user enters her personal information
which is then captured by the fraudster.

Checking the URL in the address bar of the browser may not be sufficient, as, in
some browsers, that can be faked too. The file properties feature of the browser 
may disclose the real URL of the fake webpage.

If you are contacted about an account needing to be "verified," you should 
contact the company directly, or type in the address for their webpage.

Be especially concerned about an address containing the "@" symbol, for example 
http://www.google.com@members.tripod.com/. These addresses will attempt to 
connect as a user "www.google.com" to the server "members.tripod.com". This will 
very likely succeed even if the user does not exist, and the first part of the 
link may look legitimate.
</TEXT>
