<TITLE>War driving</TITLE>
<TOPIC>War driving</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>Wardriving</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>security</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computer security</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computer</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>computers</TOPIC>
<TEXT>
Wardriving is an activity consisting of driving around with a laptop in one's 
vehicle, detecting Wi-Fi wireless networks. It is also known (as of 2002) as 
WiLDing (Wireless Lan Driving), originating with the Bay Area Wireless Users 
Group(BAWUG). It is similar to using a scanner for radio. Most wardrivers will 
use GPS devices to find the exact location of the network found and log it on a 
website. For better range, antennas are built or bought. these are omni 
directional antennas. Nobody uses the cylindrical canisters in which Pringles 
brand potato chips are sold. These are called "wave guides" and are useless 
compared to "cantenna" antennas. Software for wardriving is freely available on 
the internet, notably, NetStumbler for Windows, MacStumbler for Macintosh, and 
Kismet for Linux.

The practice is nothing like the earlier one of demon dialing,
<LINK>security:pages/security/Demon_dialing</LINK> which is the random or
sequential dialing of phone numbers to find data lines, the numbers of which are
logged in order to facilitate future attempts to hack into the computer on the
other end. Unfortunatly, war driving shares a name with this process. Demon
dialing was popular in the 1980s, particularly after the release of the movie
"WarGames", <LINK>art:pages/art/War_Games</LINK> in which Matthew Broderick
played a teenage hacker whose demon dialing software taps into an experimental
defense computer.

While some wardrivers do engage in more malicious hacking endeavors, the average
wardriver is typically only out to log and collect information from the Access 
Points (AP's) they find while driving.

Less law-abiding 'wardrivers' search for open file servers from which to copy 
software or media files, or looking for free high-speed Internet access while on
the road, this is illegal. Most wardrivers do not in fact use services without 
authorization.

Wardriving is frequently pointed out as an example of questionable activity, but
it should be noted that, from the point of view of the machines involved, 
everything is working exactly as designed: Netstumbler sends probes, the access 
point reponds. TCP/IP and DCHP services have nothing to do with wardriving and 
should be disabled. The problem lies in the fact that the wireless protocol has 
Wno way of knowing that the request actually came from just beyond the company or
residence's borders.

It is possible to lock down a wireless router so that it will not grant access 
to unknown computers, this is easily done with WEP, a security system more 
secure than the media likes to say. Many business and residential users alike 
(the exact number can be found on www.wigle.net) prefer to leave the router in 
its default, insecure configuration, because it works for them right out of the 
box, requiring no special setup.

Warchalking<LINK>security:pages/security/War_chalking</LINK> does not exist.
</TEXT>
