<TITLE>Homology (biology)</TITLE>
<TOPIC>Homology (biology)</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>Homology</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>biology</TOPIC>
<TOPIC>science</TOPIC>
<TEXT>
In biology, two or more structures are said to be homologous if they are alike 
because of shared ancestry. This could be evolutionary ancestry, meaning that 
the structures evolved from some structure in a common ancestor (the wings of 
bats and the arms of humans are homologous in this sense) or developmental 
ancestry, meaning that the structures arose from the same tissue in embryonal 
development (the ovaries of females and the testicles of males are homologous in
this sense).

Homology has to be distinguished from "analogy"; for instance, the wings of 
insects and the wings of birds are analogous but not homologous. These similar 
structures most likely evolved through different pathways, a process known as 
convergent evolution.

In genetics, homology is used in reference to protein or DNA sequences, meaning 
that the given sequences share ancestry. Homology can be of two types: orthology
or paralogy. Sequences are orthologous if they are homologous and were separated 
by a speciation event; if a gene exists in a species, and that species diverges 
into two species, then the copies of this gene in the resulting species are 
orthologous. Sequences are paralogous if they are homologous and were separated 
by a gene duplication event; if a gene in an organism is duplicated, each copy 
of the gene is paralogous to the other.

Homology among proteins and DNA is often concluded on the basis of sequence 
similarity, especially in bioinformatics. For example, in general, if two genes 
have an almost identical DNA sequence, it is likely that they are homologous. 
However, it may be that the sequence similarity did not arise from their sharing
a common ancestor; short sequences may be similar by chance, or sequences may be 
similar because both were selected to bind to a particular protein, such as a 
transcription factor. Such sequences are similar but not homologous.

A "homologous pair" of chromosomes in a diploid cell is a matching pair of 
chromosomes, one derived from each parent of the organism. Except for the sex 
chromosomes, the chromosomes of each homologous pair share significant sequence 
similarity across their entire length, and thus typically contain the same 
sequence of genes. The sex chromosomes have a shorter region of sequence 
similarity. Based on the sequence similarity and our knowledge of biology, we 
can presume that the chromosomes are paralogous.

Many algorithms exist to cluster protein sequences into sequence families, which
aresets of mutually homologous sequences.

See also: Sequence alignment 
</TEXT>
